NMS-12529: Split OpenNMS and Minion docker setup (#2889)
OpenNMS/opennms: opennms-doc/guide-install/src/asciidoc/text/monitor-location-minion/docker/minion-docker.adoc

=== Run with Docker

Modern infrastructure allows you to deploy and run workloads in containers.
With _{opennms-product-name}_ we provide and publish container images on link:https://hub.docker.com/u/opennms[DockerHub].

==== Objectives

> * Run and configure a _Minion_ in and connect it to the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance using environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Run and configure a _Minion_ in, and connect it to, the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance using environment variables
```

* Introduce a reference with all available configuration and mount conventions for more advanced setups

==== Before you begin

> It is required you have at least the following components installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have at least the following components installed:
```

> * Current stable _Docker_ release installed, e.g. installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/[Docker Documentation]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Current stable _Docker_ release installed, e.g., installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/[Docker Documentation]
```

> * Current stable _Docker Compose_ installed, e.g. installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker Compose instructions]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Current stable _Docker Compose_ installed, e.g., installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker Compose instructions]
```

> * You should have a basic knowledge about _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You should have a basic knowledge of _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories
```

> * _{opennms-product-name}_ is configured to accept connections via _ActiveMQ_ and a Minion user with _ROLE_MINION_ exist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _{opennms-product-name}_ is configured to accept connections via _ActiveMQ_ and a Minion user with _ROLE_MINION_ 
```
I think we can remove "exist" unless you mean that the ROLE_MINION must exist?

* The _Minion_ can connect to _{opennms-product-name}_ with port `61616/TCP` for _ActiveMQ_ and _REST_ on port `8980/TCP`

==== Quickstart service stack

// No section numbers for step-by-step guide
:!sectnums:

===== Step 1: Create service stack with a Minion

> Create a project directory withg `mkdir opennms-minion` and create inside a `docker-compose.yml` file with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a project directory with `mkdir opennms-minion` and create a `docker-compose.yml` file in that directory with the following content:
```

[source,yaml]
----
---
version: '3'

services:  
  minion:
    image: opennms/minion:25.2.0
    container_name: minion<1>
    environment:
      - TZ=Europe/Berlin<2>
      - MINION_ID=my-minion<3>
      - MINION_LOCATION=my-location<4>
      - OPENNMS_BROKER_URL=failover:tcp://horizon-instance:61616<5>
      - OPENNMS_BROKER_USER=minion-user<6>
      - OPENNMS_BROKER_PASS=minion-password
      - OPENNMS_HTTP_URL=http://horizon-instance:8980/opennms<7>
      - OPENNMS_HTTP_USER=minion-user<8>
      - OPENNMS_HTTP_PASS=minion-password
    command: ["-f"]
    ports:<9>
      - "8201:8201/tcp"
      - "162:1162/udp"
----
<1> Friendly container name

> <2> Timezone for the Minion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Time zone for the _Minion_
```

> <3> A defined identifier for this _Minion_, if not set a unique user identifier (_UUID_) will be generated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> A defined identifier for this _Minion_. If not set, a unique user identifier (_UUID_) will be generated
```

> <4> The name of the location the _Minion_ and the connection to the _ActiveMQ_ broker running in _{opennms-product-name}_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> The name of the location of the _Minion_ and the connection to the _ActiveMQ_ broker running in _{opennms-product-name}_
```

<5> _ActiveMQ_ broker endpoint from _{opennms-product-name}_
<6> Authentication for ActiveMQ broker

> <7> _REST_ endpoint to to connect to the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<7> _REST_ endpoint to connect to the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance
```

<8> Authentication for the _REST_ endpoint

> <9> Publish ports for SSH access to the _Karaf Shell_ and listen for _SNMP Traps_ forwarding to an internal un-privileged port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<9> Publish ports for SSH access to the _Karaf Shell_ and listen for _SNMP Traps_ forwarding to an internal unprivileged port
```

> NOTE: In this example we haven't set credentials to connect the _Minion_ via _REST_ and the _ActiveMQ Message Broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: In this example we haven't set credentials to connect the _Minion_ via _REST_ and the _ActiveMQ Message Broker_.
```

      The _Minion_ will fall back and uses the default admin/admin credentials for the communication.
      Permissions for _ActiveMQ_ and _REST_ are assigned with the role _ROLE_MINION_ on the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance.

===== Step 2: Start the service stack and test the functionality

[source,shell]
----
cd opennms-minion
docker-compose up -d
----

===== Step 3: Run _Minion_ health check

> .Login in to the _Minion Karaf Shell_ and run the health check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Log in to the _Minion Karaf Shell_ and run the health check
```

[source, shell]
----
ssh admin@localhost -p 8201

admin@minion> health:check
Verifying the health of the container

Connecting to OpenNMS ReST API   [ Success  ]
Verifying installed bundles      [ Success  ]
Connecting to JMS Broker         [ Success  ]

=> Everything is awesome
----

NOTE: The default admin password for the _Minion Karaf Shell_ is _admin_.

===== Step 4: Verify status in the administrative Web UI

> * Login as admin in the _{opennms-product-name}_ web interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Log in as admin in the _{opennms-product-name}_ web interface
```

> * _Configure OpenNMS -> Manage Minions_, the _Minion_ should be registered and the status should be _up_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Configure OpenNMS -> Manage Minions_. The _Minion_ should be registered and the status should be _up_
```

> * Verify if _Minion_ is provisioned automatically going to _Info -> Nodes_ and select the _Minion_, the services _JMX-Minion_, _Minion-Heartbeat_ and _Minion-RPC_ should be _up_ and provisioned on the local loopback interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify if _Minion_ is provisioned automatically by going to _Info -> Nodes_ and select the _Minion_. The services _JMX-Minion_, _Minion-Heartbeat_ and _Minion-RPC_ should be _up_ and provisioned on the local loop-back interface
```

=== Run with Docker

Modern infrastructure allows you to deploy and run workloads in containers.

> With _{opennms-product-name}_ we provide and publish container images on link:https://hub.docker.com/u/opennms[DockerHub].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_{opennms-product-name}_ provides and publishes container images on link:https://hub.docker.com/u/opennms[DockerHub].
```

==== Objectives

* Run and configure a _Minion_ in, and connect it to, the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance using environment variables
* Introduce a reference with all available configuration and mount conventions for more advanced setups

==== Before you begin

You must have at least the following components installed:

* Current stable _Docker_ release installed, e.g., installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/[Docker Documentation]
* Current stable _Docker Compose_ installed, e.g., installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker Compose instructions]

> * You should have a basic knowledge of _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have a basic knowledge of _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories
```

> * _{opennms-product-name}_ is configured to accept connections via _ActiveMQ_ and a Minion user with _ROLE_MINION_ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_{opennms-product-name}_ is configured to accept connections via _ActiveMQ_ and a Minion user with _ROLE_MINION_ 
```

> * The _Minion_ can connect to _{opennms-product-name}_ with port `61616/TCP` for _ActiveMQ_ and _REST_ on port `8980/TCP`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Minion_ can connect to _{opennms-product-name}_ with port `61616/TCP` for _ActiveMQ_ and _REST_ on port `8980/TCP`
```

      - TZ=Europe/Berlin<3>
      - MINION_ID=my-minion<4>
      - MINION_LOCATION=my-location<5>
      - OPENNMS_BROKER_URL=failover:tcp://horizon-instance:61616<6>
      - OPENNMS_BROKER_USER=minion-user<7>
      - OPENNMS_BROKER_PASS=minion-password
      - OPENNMS_HTTP_URL=http://horizon-instance:8980/opennms<8>
      - OPENNMS_HTTP_USER=minion-user<9>
      - OPENNMS_HTTP_PASS=minion-password
    command: ["-f"]
----
<1> Friendly container name
<2> If you process UDP data like SNMP traps, Syslogs or flows, `network_mode: host` ensures the UDP source addresses are not modified
<3> Time zone for the _Minion_
<4> A defined identifier for this _Minion_. If not set, a unique user identifier (_UUID_) will be generated
<5> The name of the location of the _Minion_ and the connection to the _ActiveMQ_ broker running in _{opennms-product-name}_
<6> _ActiveMQ_ broker endpoint from _{opennms-product-name}_
<7> Authentication for ActiveMQ broker
<8> _REST_ endpoint to connect to the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance
<9> Authentication for the _REST_ endpoint

NOTE: In this example we haven't set credentials to connect the _Minion_ via _REST_ and the _ActiveMQ Message Broker_.

>       The _Minion_ will fall back and uses the default admin/admin credentials for the communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The _Minion_ will fall back and uses the default admin/admin credentials for communication.
```

      Permissions for _ActiveMQ_ and _REST_ are assigned with the role _ROLE_MINION_ on the _{opennms-product-name}_ instance.

> WARNING: In case you process UDP data and you don't use `network_mode: host` the UDP source address from your packets will be modified from Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: If you process UDP data and you don't use `network_mode: host`, the UDP source address from your packets will be modified from Docker.
```

         The source address is your Docker internal gateway instead of the source address of your device.

>          Source addresses are used to associate the Syslog or SNMP traps to the nodes in the OpenNMS database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Source addresses associate the Syslog or SNMP traps to the nodes in the OpenNMS database.
```

>          You can use an isolated network and publish ports as usual if you don't receive UDP based monitoring data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         You can use an isolated network and publish ports as usual if you don't receive UDP-based monitoring data.
```

         If you don't use `network_mode: host` you have to publish the listener ports manually.

===== Step 2: Start the service stack and test the functionality

[source,shell]
----
cd opennms-minion
docker-compose up -d
----

> ===== Step 3: Run _Minion_ health check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Step 3: Run _Minion_ Health Check
```

.Log in to the _Minion Karaf Shell_ and run the health check
[source, shell]
----
ssh admin@localhost -p 8201

admin@minion> health:check
Verifying the health of the container

Connecting to OpenNMS ReST API   [ Success  ]
Verifying installed bundles      [ Success  ]
Connecting to JMS Broker         [ Success  ]

=> Everything is awesome
----

NOTE: The default admin password for the _Minion Karaf Shell_ is _admin_.

> ===== Step 4: Verify status in the administrative Web UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Step 4: Verify status in the web UI
```

* Log in as admin in the _{opennms-product-name}_ web interface
* _Configure OpenNMS -> Manage Minions_. The _Minion_ should be registered and the status should be _up_

> * Verify if _Minion_ is provisioned automatically by going to _Info -> Nodes_ and select the _Minion_. The services _JMX-Minion_, _Minion-Heartbeat_ and _Minion-RPC_ should be _up_ and provisioned on the local loop-back interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Verify that _Minion_ is provisioned automatically by going to _Info -> Nodes_ and selecting the _Minion_. The services _JMX-Minion_, _Minion-Heartbeat_ and _Minion-RPC_ should be _up_ and provisioned on the local loop-back interface
```

Reviewer: Could we offer suggestions on what to look for if they are not provisioned? Or is that beyond the scope of this material?
